buildbot/filters/README.md, before:

# Test filter files

## Summary

This directory contains files that list tests that are not yet ready to run in a
particular mode. For example - the `site-per-process.browser_tests.filter` file
lists tests that should be excluded when running `browser_tests` in
`--site-per-process` mode.

## File syntax

Contents of test filter files follow the syntax below:

-   Empty lines are ignored
-   Lines starting with the '#' character are treated as comments and ignored.
-   All other lines specify a single [test name pattern][gtest_filter].
    -   Negative patterns: Patterns prefixed with the '-' character specify
        tests to exclude from a test run.
    -   Positive patterns: All other patterns specify tests to include in a test
        run.

A test will be executed if and only if it matches any of the positive patterns
but does not match any of the negative patterns (please see documentation of
[--gtest_filter][gtest_filter] for more details and examples).

Please see [https://crbug.com/587527] for discussion how "positive" and
"negative" test patterns should be combined in presence of both the
`--gtest_filter` and the `--test-launcher-filter-file` command line flags.

Example test filter file for excluding a set of tests:

```test.filter
# crbug.com/417518: Get tests working w/ --site-per-process
-BrowserTest.OtherRedirectsDontForkProcess
-ChromeRenderProcessHostTest.*
-ReferrerPolicyTest.HttpsRedirect

# crbug.com/448592: Get extension browsertests working w/ --site-per-process
-IsolatedAppTest.CookieIsolation
-IsolatedAppTest.CrossProcessClientRedirect
-IsolatedAppTest.IsolatedAppProcessModel
-IsolatedAppTest.SubresourceCookieIsolation
```

## Usage

When running tests on desktop platforms, the test filter file can be specified
using `--test-launcher-filter-file` command line flag. Example test invocation:

```bash
$ out/dbg/content_browsertests \
    --site-per-process \
    --test-launcher-filter-file=testing/buildbot/filters/site-per-process.content_browsertests.filter
```

When running tests on Android, the test filter file can be specified using
`--gtest-filter-file` command line flag. Example test invocation:

```bash
$ out/android/bin/run_content_browsertests \
    --site-per-process \
    --gtest-filter-file=testing/buildbot/filters/site-per-process.content_browsertests.filter
```

## Applicability

Test filter files described here are currently only supported for gtest-based
tests.

For excluding layout tests when running with a particular command line flag, see
`third_party/WebKit/LayoutTests/FlagExpectations/README.txt`.

## Adding new test filter files

Please use the following conventions when naming the new file:

-   Please include the name of the test executable (e.g.
    `content_browsertests`).
-   Please use `.filter` suffix.
-   Feel free to add other relevant things into the file name (e.g. the mode the
    file applies to - for example `site-per-process`).

When adding a new file, please update `//testing/buildbot/filters/BUILD.gn`.

[gtest_filter]: https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/googletest/docs/AdvancedGuide.md#running-a-subset-of-the-tests

Commit message:

Support in-line comments in test filters.
Previously, when parsing test filter files, test launcher allowed 
comments only on separate lines. For example:
  # Comment
  -DisabledTest

Now it's possible to add comments on any line, e.g.:
  -DisabledTest  # Comment

Change-Id: I973a8abf5894d6b75ebeefe0cc7df4ebf70ab027
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/622168
Commit-Queue: Sergey Ulanov <sergeyu@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Łukasz Anforowicz <lukasza@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Scott Graham <scottmg@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Nico Weber <thakis@chromium.org>
Cr-Original-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#497635}
Cr-Mirrored-From: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src
Cr-Mirrored-Commit: 3d567ae212a4cf9f297cac8f7ec5263aec16ebcc

buildbot/filters/README.md, after:

# Test filter files

## Summary

This directory contains files that list tests that are not yet ready to run in a
particular mode. For example - the `site-per-process.browser_tests.filter` file
lists tests that should be excluded when running `browser_tests` in
`--site-per-process` mode.

## File syntax

Contents of test filter files follow the syntax below:

-   Empty lines are ignored.
-   Any text after '#' on each line is treated as comments and ignored.
-   All other lines specify a single [test name pattern][gtest_filter].
    -   Negative patterns: Patterns prefixed with the '-' character specify
        tests to exclude from a test run.
    -   Positive patterns: All other patterns specify tests to include in a test
        run.

A test will be executed if and only if it matches any of the positive patterns
but does not match any of the negative patterns (please see documentation of
[--gtest_filter][gtest_filter] for more details and examples).

Please see [https://crbug.com/587527] for discussion how "positive" and
"negative" test patterns should be combined in presence of both the
`--gtest_filter` and the `--test-launcher-filter-file` command line flags.

Example test filter file for excluding a set of tests:

```test.filter
# crbug.com/417518: Get tests working w/ --site-per-process
-BrowserTest.OtherRedirectsDontForkProcess
-ChromeRenderProcessHostTest.*
-ReferrerPolicyTest.HttpsRedirect

# crbug.com/448592: Get extension browsertests working w/ --site-per-process
-IsolatedAppTest.CookieIsolation
-IsolatedAppTest.CrossProcessClientRedirect
-IsolatedAppTest.IsolatedAppProcessModel
-IsolatedAppTest.SubresourceCookieIsolation
```

## Usage

When running tests on desktop platforms, the test filter file can be specified
using `--test-launcher-filter-file` command line flag. Example test invocation:

```bash
$ out/dbg/content_browsertests \
    --site-per-process \
    --test-launcher-filter-file=testing/buildbot/filters/site-per-process.content_browsertests.filter
```

When running tests on Android, the test filter file can be specified using
`--gtest-filter-file` command line flag. Example test invocation:

```bash
$ out/android/bin/run_content_browsertests \
    --site-per-process \
    --gtest-filter-file=testing/buildbot/filters/site-per-process.content_browsertests.filter
```

## Applicability

Test filter files described here are currently only supported for gtest-based
tests.

For excluding layout tests when running with a particular command line flag, see
`third_party/WebKit/LayoutTests/FlagExpectations/README.txt`.

## Adding new test filter files

Please use the following conventions when naming the new file:

-   Please include the name of the test executable (e.g.
    `content_browsertests`).
-   Please use `.filter` suffix.
-   Feel free to add other relevant things into the file name (e.g. the mode the
    file applies to - for example `site-per-process`).

When adding a new file, please update `//testing/buildbot/filters/BUILD.gn`.

[gtest_filter]: https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/googletest/docs/AdvancedGuide.md#running-a-subset-of-the-tests
