android/docs/junit.md, before:

# JUnit Tests

JUnit tests are Java unit tests. These tests run locally on your workstation.

[TOC]

## Writing a JUnit test

When writing JUnit tests, you must decide whether you need to use Android code.
If you want to use Android code you must write a [Robolectric](http://robolectric.org/) test.

### JUnit tests (without Android)

Build these types of test using the `junit_binary` GN template.

If you don't need to use any Android code in your tests, you can write plain,
old JUnit tests. Some more documentation about writing JUnit tests can be
found [here](https://github.com/junit-team/junit4/wiki/Getting-started).

#### Example Code

```java
package org.chromium.sample.test;

import static org.junit.Assert.assertTrue;

import org.junit.Test;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;
import org.junit.runners.BlockJUnit4ClassRunner;

@RunWith(BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
public class MyJUnitTest {

    @Test
    public void exampleTest() {
        boolean shouldWriteMoreJUnitTests = true;
        assertTrue(shouldWriteMoreJUnitTests);
    }
}
```

#### Example within Chromium

See the [junit_unit_tests](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/testing/android/junit/BUILD.gn) test suite.

### JUnit tests with Robolectric

Build these types of test using the `junit_binary` GN template.

Robolectric is a unit testing framework that lets you run tests with Android
code on your workstation. It does this by providing a special version of the
Android SDK jar that can run in your host JVM. Some more information about
Robolectric can be found [here](http://robolectric.org/).

#### Useful Tips

* Use `@RunWith(LocalRobolectricTestRunner.class)` for all Chromium Robolectric tests.
* Use `@Config(manifest = Config.NONE)` for tests.
  Currently, you are unable to pass your app's AndroidManifest to Robolectric.
* You can specify the Android SDK to run your test with with `@Config(sdk = ??)`.

> Currently, only SDK levels 18, 21, and 25 are supported in Chromium
> but more can be added on request.

#### Example Code

```java
package org.chromium.sample.test;

import static org.junit.Assert.assertTrue;

import android.text.TextUtils;

import org.junit.Test;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;
import org.robolectric.annotation.Config;

import org.chromium.testing.local.LocalRobolectricTestRunner;

// Be sure to specify to run tests with the LocalRobolectricTestRunner. The
// default JUnit test runner won't load the Robolectric Android code properly.
@RunWith(LocalRobolectricTestRunner.class)
// Can specify some Robolectric related configs here.
// More about configuring Robolectric at http://robolectric.org/configuring/.
// SDK will default to the latest we support in Chromium.
@Config(manifest = Config.NONE, sdk = 21)
public class MyRobolectricJUnitTest {

    @Test
    public void exampleTest() {
        String testString = "test";

        // Even though these tests runs on the host, Android classes are
        // available to use thanks to Robolectric.
        assertTrue(TextUtils.equals(testString, "test"));
    }
}
```

#### Example within Chromium

See the [content_junit_tests](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/public/android/BUILD.gn) test suite.

## Running JUnit tests

After writing a test, you can run it by:

1. Adding the test file to a `junit_binary` GN target.
2. Rebuild.
3. GN will generate binary `<out_dir>/bin/run_<suite name>` which
   can be used to run your test.

For example, the following can be used to run chrome_junit_tests.

```bash
# Build the test suite after adding our new test.
ninja -C out/Debug chrome_junit_tests

# Run the test!
out/Debug/bin/run_chrome_junit_tests
```

Commit message:

Updated Robolectric documentation.
Now that change to expose resources to Robolectric tests has
landed, I wanted to update the documentation to point out to
people they need to specify "package_name" GN variable to get
it to work (since that is definitely not obvious).

You can also (theoretically) now specify the AndroidManifest.xml
file to Robolectric (Robolectric will grab the package name from
there). However, no tests currently do this.

Review-Url: https://codereview.chromium.org/2882243003
Cr-Original-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#472156}
Cr-Mirrored-From: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src
Cr-Mirrored-Commit: 5e8650321a3058567af36d42faf2618d93743e59

android/docs/junit.md, after:

# JUnit Tests

JUnit tests are Java unit tests. These tests run locally on your workstation.

[TOC]

## Writing a JUnit test

When writing JUnit tests, you must decide whether you need to use Android code.
If you want to use Android code you must write a [Robolectric](http://robolectric.org/) test.

### JUnit tests (without Android)

Build these types of test using the `junit_binary` GN template.

If you don't need to use any Android code in your tests, you can write plain,
old JUnit tests. Some more documentation about writing JUnit tests can be
found [here](https://github.com/junit-team/junit4/wiki/Getting-started).

#### Example Code

```java
package org.chromium.sample.test;

import static org.junit.Assert.assertTrue;

import org.junit.Test;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;
import org.junit.runners.BlockJUnit4ClassRunner;

@RunWith(BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
public class MyJUnitTest {

    @Test
    public void exampleTest() {
        boolean shouldWriteMoreJUnitTests = true;
        assertTrue(shouldWriteMoreJUnitTests);
    }
}
```

#### Example within Chromium

See the [junit_unit_tests](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/testing/android/junit/BUILD.gn) test suite.

### JUnit tests with Robolectric

Build these types of test using the `junit_binary` GN template.

Robolectric is a unit testing framework that lets you run tests with Android
code on your workstation. It does this by providing a special version of the
Android SDK jar that can run in your host JVM. Some more information about
Robolectric can be found [here](http://robolectric.org/).

One on the main benefits of using Robolectric framework are [shadow classes](http://robolectric.org/extending/).
Robolectric comes with many prebuilt shadow classes and also lets you define
your own. Whenever an object is instantiated within a Robolectric test,
Robolectric looks for a corresponding shadow class (marked by
`@Implements(ClassBeingShadowed.class)`). If found, any time a method is invoked
on the object, the shadow class's implementation of the method is invoked first.
This works even for static and final methods.

#### Useful Tips

* Use `@RunWith(LocalRobolectricTestRunner.class)` for all Chromium Robolectric tests.
* You can specify the Android SDK to run your test with with `@Config(sdk = ??)`.

> Currently, only SDK levels 18, 21, and 25 are supported in Chromium
> but more can be added on request.

#### Example Code

```java
package org.chromium.sample.test;

import static org.junit.Assert.assertTrue;

import android.text.TextUtils;

import org.junit.Test;
import org.junit.runner.RunWith;
import org.robolectric.annotation.Config;

import org.chromium.testing.local.LocalRobolectricTestRunner;

// Be sure to specify to run tests with the LocalRobolectricTestRunner. The
// default JUnit test runner won't load the Robolectric Android code properly.
@RunWith(LocalRobolectricTestRunner.class)
// Can specify some Robolectric related configs here.
// More about configuring Robolectric at http://robolectric.org/configuring/.
// SDK will default to the latest we support in Chromium.
@Config(manifest = Config.NONE, sdk = 21)
public class MyRobolectricJUnitTest {

    @Test
    public void exampleTest() {
        String testString = "test";

        // Even though these tests runs on the host, Android classes are
        // available to use thanks to Robolectric.
        assertTrue(TextUtils.equals(testString, "test"));
    }
}
```

#### Example junit_binary build template.

```python
junit_binary("my_robolectric_tests") {

    java_files = [
        "java/src/foo/bar/MyJUnitTest.java"

    deps = [
        "//my/test:dependency",
    ]

    # Sets app's package name in Robolectric tests. You need to specify
    # this variable in order for Robolectric to be able to find your app's
    # resources.
    package_name = manifest_package
}
```

#### Example within Chromium

See the [content_junit_tests](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/public/android/BUILD.gn) test suite.

## Running JUnit tests

After writing a test, you can run it by:

1. Adding the test file to a `junit_binary` GN target.
2. Rebuild.
3. GN will generate binary `<out_dir>/bin/run_<suite name>` which
   can be used to run your test.

For example, the following can be used to run chrome_junit_tests.

```bash
# Build the test suite after adding our new test.
ninja -C out/Debug chrome_junit_tests

# Run the test!
out/Debug/bin/run_chrome_junit_tests
```
