libfuzzer/README.md, before:

# Libfuzzer in Chrome

[go/libfuzzer-chrome](https://goto.google.com/libfuzzer-chrome)

*** aside
[Getting Started](getting_started.md)
| [Buildbot](https://goto.google.com/libfuzzer-clusterfuzz-buildbot)
| [ClusterFuzz Status](https://goto.google.com/libfuzzer-clusterfuzz-status)
***

This directory contains integration between [LibFuzzer] and Chrome.
Libfuzzer is an in-process coverage-driven evolutionary fuzzer. It helps
engineers to uncover potential security & stability problems earlier.

*** note
**Requirements:** libfuzzer in chrome is supported with GN on Linux only. 
***

## Integration Status

Fuzzer tests are well-integrated with Chrome build system & distributed 
ClusterFuzz fuzzing system. Cover bug: [crbug.com/539572].

## Documentation

* [Getting Started Guide] walks you through all the steps necessary to create
your fuzzer and submit it to ClusterFuzz.
* [Efficient Fuzzer Guide] explains how to measure fuzzer effectiveness and
ways to improve it.
* [ClusterFuzz Integration] describes integration between ClusterFuzz and 
libfuzzer.
* [Reference] contains detailed references for different integration parts.


[LibFuzzer]: http://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html
[crbug.com/539572]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=539572
[Getting Started Guide]: getting_started.md
[Efficient Fuzzer Guide]: efficient_fuzzer.md
[ClusterFuzz Integration]: clusterfuzz.md
[Reference]: reference.md

Commit message:

[libfuzzer] documentation update
BUG=539572

Review URL: https://codereview.chromium.org/1837913004

Cr-Original-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#384111}
Cr-Mirrored-From: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src
Cr-Mirrored-Commit: 9c8c5b02399bf714e90b01b147b0e7995cd5f9be

libfuzzer/README.md, after:

# libFuzzer in Chrome

[go/libfuzzer-chrome](https://goto.google.com/libfuzzer-chrome)

*** aside
[Getting Started](getting_started.md)
| [Buildbot](https://goto.google.com/libfuzzer-clusterfuzz-buildbot)
| [ClusterFuzz Status](https://goto.google.com/libfuzzer-clusterfuzz-status)
| [Cover Bug]
***

This directory contains integration between [libFuzzer] and Chrome.
libFuzzer is an in-process coverage-driven evolutionary fuzzer. It helps
engineers to uncover potential security & stability problems earlier.

*** note
**Requirements:** libFuzzer in chrome is supported with GN on Linux only. 
***

## Integration Status

Fuzzer tests are well-integrated with Chrome build system & distributed 
ClusterFuzz fuzzing system. Cover bug: [crbug.com/539572].

## Documentation

* [Getting Started Guide] walks you through all the steps necessary to create
your fuzzer and submit it to ClusterFuzz.
* [Efficient Fuzzer Guide] explains how to measure fuzzer effectiveness and
ways to improve it.
* [ClusterFuzz Integration] describes integration between ClusterFuzz and 
libFuzzer.
* [Reference] contains detailed references for different integration parts.


## Trophies
* [ClusterFuzz Bugs] - issues found and automatically filed by ClusterFuzz.
* [Manual Bugs] - issues that were filed manually after running fuzzers.
* [Pdfium Bugs] - bugs found in pdfium by manual fuzzing.
* [OSS Trophies] - bugs found with libFuzzer in open-source projects.

[libFuzzer]: http://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html
[crbug.com/539572]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=539572
[Cover Bug]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=539572
[Getting Started Guide]: getting_started.md
[Efficient Fuzzer Guide]: efficient_fuzzer.md
[ClusterFuzz Integration]: clusterfuzz.md
[Reference]: reference.md
[ClusterFuzz Bugs]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?can=1&q=label:Stability-LibFuzzer%20label:ClusterFuzz&sort=-modified&colspec=ID%20Pri%20M%20Stars%20ReleaseBlock%20Component%20Status%20Owner%20Summary%20OS%20Modified
[Pdfium Bugs]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/pdfium/issues/list?can=1&q=libfuzzer&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Summary&cells=tiles
[Manual Bugs]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?can=1&q=label%3AStability-LibFuzzer+-label%3AClusterFuzz&sort=-modified&colspec=ID+Pri+M+Stars+ReleaseBlock+Component+Status+Owner+Summary+OS+Modified&x=m&y=releaseblock&cells=ids
[OSS Trophies]: http://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html#trophies
